# Text-Based-Dungeon-Game-Python-
The goal for this dungeon game was to give the player as many options as possible when playing the game. To achieve this, I decided to make the game as a turn-based game where the player would be prompted for an input, type the desired action into the console, and be told the result of their action after each turn. Additionally, before the game starts, the player has the option to choose from three different classes (Mage, Warrior, Battlemage), which would determine the player's starting health and attacking points. This will give every player (depending on their class) a slightly different gameplay experience.

Within the dungeon, there are seven rooms that the player can traverse, one of which is optional (see game map below). The player has the choice of picking up attack or health potions along the way to help fight and survive the enemies in each of the rooms. Should a player need to return to one of the rooms to pick up a potion, the player can simply move through the previous rooms by typing 'Move', followed by the appropriate direction, to move back and retrieve the potion that was missed. However, each room can have at most two potions (one attack potion and one health potion) and once each is picked up, it will no longer be available in the room. This ensures that the player cannot simply stay in rooms and reuse potions until they have a significantly large amount of health or attack.

Another interesting feature of the game is that once the player reaches the Abandoned Library, the player is not able to move back to the previous room. This is signified by the message 'You look back and see that several boulders have blocked your way back to the courtyard...'. I believe this feature allows the game to be more challenging, as players are not able to simply move back and collect all the potions that were missed.
